Over the past few years, the stock
market has been on an absolute tear. And
as we know, it's largely been on the
back of seven companies that are all
making moves in the world of AI. Profits
have been rising, and investors have
been flooding money into these
companies, pushing up their stock prices
and their valuations. But there's a
pretty big problem, and the more I see
these companies rise, the more nervous I
get. Now, to be clear, the share prices
rising is not necessarily a problem.
That can go on a very long time before
it leads to issues. The problem I see is
a bottleneck. It's one single choke
point that has the potential to really
hurt all of these AI companies. And with
these seven stocks now accounting for
over a third of the S&P 500 index, I
think it's something that deserves a lot
more attention because a problem
affecting these seven companies could
effectively bring the whole market down
like one big house of cards. So to
explain this problem we're facing, we
need to look at one of these seven
companies in particular. That company is
Nvidia. Now, as we know, Nvidia has
performed exceptionally well over the
past few years on the back of insatiable
demand for its AI chips like the H100 or
the B200. They're now the largest
company in the S&P 500, accounting for
over 7% of the index just by themselves.
They're a $4.5 trillion company, and
investors are expecting this growth to
continue. They're giving them a PE ratio
of around 50. Aka after 50 years of
current performance, the business will
earn enough for you to make back your
money as an investor. Now, that's a high
valuation, and it means investors expect
this company to grow, not to stand
still. But fair enough, the company is
growing quickly because Nvidia's chips
are in hot demand from all the big
companies around the world. In fact, out
of the other Magnificent 7 companies,
the only one not buying up Nvidia chips
is Apple, who designed their own. But
the overarching point is everybody wants
Nvidia's chips. Now, here's the thing.
When you ask people what Nvidia do,
they'll probably say, "Oh, Nvidia, they
make chips, right?" When you listen to
news reports or YouTube videos, that's
also what you'll hear. Nvidia make
chips. They're making the chips that are
fueling the AI boom. But that's actually
not true because Nvidia is not actually
a chip maker. They are a chip designer.
Nvidia engineers design the architecture
of its GPUs. Everything from how cores
process data, memory layout, power
efficiency. They even design the
software stacks that make their hardware
useful. But they do not manufacture
their own products. In other words,
Nvidia's value is in the intellectual
property. They draw the allimportant
blueprints. It's the same thing with
Apple. Apple love to say that they now
make their own chips, the A19 chip in
the new iPhone or the M5 in the latest
generation of MacBooks. But in reality,
they are also just the designer. The
company that actually manufactures the
chips for both Apple and Nvidia is TSMC.
That's it. Just one company. And this is
where you start to see a potential
bottleneck. The M series for MacBooks,
the A series for iPhones, Nvidia's A100,
the H100, the H200, the B200. All of the
world's most desired chips. And the ones
that are almost completely powering this
AI revolution are manufactured by one
company. That in itself is a really big
risk. But right now, you've got that
risk compounded because what does TSMC
stand for? It isn't Tennessee
semiconductor. It's Taiwan
semiconductor. And if you've been living
under a rock, there's quite some concern
that China will look to take control of
Taiwan in the not too distant future. In
fact, US intelligence believed that
Xiinping is preparing the Chinese forces
to invade by no later than 2027.
We've seen China building and testing
specifically designed new landing ships
for just such an occasion. They're
building 70 new commercial fairies
capable of transporting troops and
armored vehicles scheduled to be
completed by the end of 2026 and in the
last few months have been conducting
large-scale military drills in the
waters around Taiwan. Now, I'm not
necessarily saying that China is going
to actually follow through and do it,
but I do find it a little concerning
that the entire AI industry is propped
up by this one company that manufactures
80 to 90% of its chips in Taiwan and has
even admitted that moving its fabs out
of Taiwan would be basically impossible.
Now, I know what you're thinking. Okay,
that sounds like a big risk, but I'm
sure if something happened to TSMC, then
Nvidia and Apple could just use another
company to make their chips, right? Take
their designs to another manufacturer.
This sounds logical in theory, but the
reality is it's a much tougher problem
than people think because the types of
chips that Apple and Nvidia are
designing, the 3 and 4 nanometer chip
generation, can really only be
manufactured by two companies in the
world, TSMC and Samsung. Why? Not to get
too into the weeds, but the 3 and 4 nm
generations are the most advanced chips
in the world. They will soon be
overtaken by the 2nm generation. It's a
bit of a mess because the naming
convention used to be about transistor
size. Now it's kind of morphed into just
marketing speak. But the idea is the
smaller you can make the transistors,
the more you can fit onto a chip and the
more powerful and efficient the chip
becomes. Now for scale, a human hair is
around 70,000 nm thick. So, these
transistors are 3,000 to 4,000 times
smaller than that. To make transistors
that tiny, you need an insane level of
precision, and there's only one company
on Earth that even makes those machines,
ASML, based in the Netherlands. Each one
of these machines costs around $300 to
$400 million, and there are only a few
hundred out there in existence. These
machines are owned by various companies
around the world, but mostly by TSMC and
Samsung. But the kicker is, even if you
do have one of these $400 million ASML
machines, you still can't make the 3nm
chip unless you have the decades of
experience, the software, and the supply
chains that go with it. And then to make
these chips at volume, only TSMC and
Samsung can do it. Okay, so send the
orders to Samsung instead. The problem
is Samsung, literally the next most
advanced foundry, still struggles to
match TSMC's production quality. Their 4
nanometer processors had big yield
issues, meaning a big chunk of their
chips come out defective. And honestly,
when you're producing a $30,000 GPU or a
$200 iPhone processor at scale, a 20%
yield loss is just too painful. Nvidia
learned this the hard way during the
pandemic because it actually did use
Samsung's 8nm processor for its RTX 30
series GPUs, but the yields were so poor
that Nvidia went straight back to TSMC
for the next generation. So to sum it
up, if something happened to TSMC, you
can't swap them out. There's no viable
backup plan. There isn't a ready to go
fab to hire in Texas that Nvidia can
rent out if the Taiwan situation
escalates. And that's what makes this
whole AI boom so fragile. And you might
say, but hold up, isn't there a massive
push for chips to be made in the US? And
isn't TSMC building a chip fab in the
US? Yeah, that is correct. TSMC is
building chip fabs in Arizona to be
specific. But the thing is, just because
you build the factory doesn't mean you
can instantly start pumping out the
world's most advanced chips. For
starters, those new Arizona fabs are
years behind schedule. The first one was
supposed to start producing chips in
2024,
but it's now been pushed back to late
this year or even next year. And the
second site might not be ready until
2028. These fabs are extremely complex.
I don't know if you've ever seen footage
of them, but they are not like a car
assembly plant. These places look like
something straight out of a sci-fi. The
air is cleaner than an operating room.
Workers wear full body bunny suits to
avoid shedding a single speck of dust
because even a single particle can
destroy an entire wafer worth millions
of dollars. We're talking about
facilities that require investments of
tens of billions of dollars, require
thousands of specially trained workers,
and need ultra specialized supply chains
of gases, chemicals, and precision
machinery that just isn't established
locally in the US. So, that's hurdle
number one, and that's not even
mentioning the talent problem. TSMC's
engineers in Taiwan have decades of
experience working up to the most
advanced 3nm and 4nometer nodes. But
when they brought that operation to
Arizona, they discovered that the local
workforce just doesn't have that level
of expertise yet. Engineers even had to
be flown over from Taiwan just to get
things working. So you really can't
replace that technical knowhow
overnight. And then of course the final
problem, even if these fabs do finally
come online, they won't be building
Nvidia's top tier AI chips right away.
The plan is for the Arizona plants to
make chips on TSMC's 4nanmter process,
while the latest and most in demand
chips like Apple's A19 and Nvidia's B200
use 3 nanometer technology soon moving
to 2nm technology. So, it's going to
take quite some time before that true
state-of-the-art manufacturing is
happening at scale in the United States.
So, yes, there's progress. The US is
absolutely investing in chip
manufacturing through the chips act and
companies like Intel and Samsung and
TSMC are all expanding on American soil,
but it's not something that can happen
in a couple of years. Building up that
ecosystem, the people, the materials,
the suppliers, the precision tools.
Ultimately, it's going to take many,
many years, potentially a decade. And
that's why when I asked Steve Eisman
about this, a man pretty good at
predicting stock market bubbles, he said
this. Do you think the biggest thing we
have to watch out for at the moment is
the geopolitical?
>> Yes. Okay.
>> Definitely.
>> The reality is there is a massive
dependency on Taiwan and TSMC. But what
happens if China does invade Taiwan?
This is where things get very
interesting. Now, of course, we are just
speculating at this point as the truth
is we don't know what would happen. But
TSMC has said for years that if China
invaded, they wouldn't be able to
continue producing chips for the West
under Chinese occupation. even if they
wanted to. It's just not that simple. As
I was saying, their facilities depend on
global inputs, high-end machinery,
specially designed software from the US,
and so on. If China attacked, those
supply lines would be instantly cut off.
So, even if TSMC's fabs weren't
destroyed, they'd basically be dead in
the water. They wouldn't be able to get
the parts, the tools, or the support
they'd need to keep running. And this is
why the US is watching so damn closely.
And it's why America would almost
certainly get involved if China invaded
Taiwan. In fact, the US has made it very
clear that they would rather see TSMC's
equipment disabled than fall into
Chinese control. There are even whispers
that Washington has contingency plans to
evacuate key Taiwanese engineers or
remotely disable the factory tools so
that they can't be used by China. And
from China's perspective, if they took
control of Taiwan, it's unlikely they
just keep exporting the world's most
advanced chips to American companies.
Wishful thinking, but I think it's
highly unlikely. I mean, you think about
it. China already controls over 90% of
the world's rare earth refining. And
they have not done that by accident.
They've done it for power and control.
It gives them massive negotiating power
and massive leverage. They control a
critical ingredient in EVs, batteries,
and defense equipment. If they also
controlled TSMC, that's a huge economic
move and it would really weaken the
West. It's really quite crazy. They take
this one little island off their coast
and the West is in big trouble. And
that's why I think we as investors need
to be really careful about this one
choke point of the whole AI economy.
remove one tiny little island off the
coast of China and Nvidia's chips stop,
Apple's chips stop, and then you have to
deal with the flow and effect into
Amazon, Microsoft, Tesla, Meta, Google
to an extent, and they're just the big
ones. But let me know what you think.
Again, I don't want to come across as
fear-mongering. I'm not predicting the
end of the world here, but I think it's
certainly something that should be
thought about probably a little bit more
than the euphoric market is currently
thinking about it today. So, let me know
what you think down in the comments
section below. Am I crazy? I'd love to
hear your thoughts. But apart from that,
please leave a like on the video if you
did enjoy it. And with that said, I'll
see you guys in the next one.